.\" $Id: baseline.man,v 11.4 2014/12/14 20:15:50 tom Exp $
.de Es
.ne \\$1
.nr mE \\n(.f
.RS 5n
.sp .7
.nf
.nh
.ta 9n 17n 25n 33n 41n 49n
.ft CW
..
.de Ex
.ft \\n(mE
.fi
.hy \\n(HY
.RE
.sp .7
..
.TH BASELINE 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBbaseline\fR \- rcs utility
.SH USAGE
.PP
\fBbaseline\fI [options] [file-specifications]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR permits you to set a baseline version in one or
more RCS files.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR adds a baseline (placeholder) version to one or
more RCS archives.
The effective check-in time for the file is the
file's last check-in date (before \fBbaseline\fR is invoked)
.PP
Assuming that the file was originally checked in using \fBcheckin\fR,
then the check-in, modification and baseline dates all are
the same.
.PP
A baseline version consists of a group of files which
can be referenced by a common version number.
The baseline program uses for this purpose 2.0, 3.0, etc.
Version 1.0 is never used,
since the first development version is, by convention, 1.1.
.PP
After baselining, you may use \fBcheckout\fR to obtain
a particular set of files.
For example,
.Es
checkout \-r2.0 file
.Ex
.PP
obtains the baseline "2.0" version, while
.Es
checkout \-r2 file1 file2 file3
.Ex
.PP
obtains the last development version beginning with "2.0", but
before "3.0".
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR recognizes several options:
.TP
.BI \- integer
\fRthe new baseline version, specified as a whole
number after a hyphen, e.g.,
.RS
.Es
baseline \-2 file1 file2 file3
.Ex
.PP
If no baseline version is specified, the most recent baseline
version (as recorded in the \fBRCS,v\fR \fBpermit\fR-file) is
assumed.
This is done to permit additional files to be added to an
existing baseline.
.RE
.TP
.B \-a
permits \fBbaseline\fR to process files in directories
beginning with ".".
.TP
.B \-l
leaves files locked after baselining.
Also, if files
are locked but not modified, no error is reported.
.TP
.B \-L
allows \fBbaseline\fR to follow symbolic links to directories.
.TP
.BI \-m msg
adds the string "\-\-\ \fImsg\fR" to
the default baseline revision message "\fBBASELINE\fR \fIdate\fR".
.TP
.B \-n
runs \fBbaseline\fR in no-op mode,
showing where permissions would be purged,
and listing files which would be baselined.
.TP
.B \-p
the "purge" option purges existing access lists in the archives
to prevent locks while the baselining process is proceeding.
.TP
.B \-R
permits \fBbaseline\fR to run recursively when
it encounters a non-RCS directory.
.TP
.B \-v
makes the baseline process more verbose by causing
permit, checkin and checkout to show their actions.
.SH OPERATIONS
.PP
Before invoking \fBbaseline\fR, ensure that all of the files to
be baselined have been checked into \fIrcs\fR
(e.g., with "\fBcheckin\fR \-u").
This is easily done using the directory editor \fBded\fR.
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR operates only upon files which have been
checked into \fIrcs\fR (i.e., a corresponding archive file exists
in the subdirectory "RCS").
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR requires that all of the working files have been
checked in (i.e., with the "\-u" option so that they are retained
as working files).
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR first invokes \fBpermit\fR (to ensure that you
have permission to place locks in the directory, then to purge the
archive access lists, and finally to set the baseline-version for
the directory).
It then invokes \fBcheckin\fR and \fBcheckout\fR
(which must be in your path) to first place a lock on the specified
files, and then to check-in the file with the new, baseline version.
.PP
If any files are found which are locked, \fBbaseline\fR prints
an error message and halts.
Similarly, an attempt made to baseline
a file with a lower version than has been archived will result in
an error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR is written in C, and runs under POSIX systems.
.SH FILES
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR uses the following files
.TP
\fBpermit\fR
the RCS directory-permissions utility
.TP
\fBcheckin\fR
the RCS check-in package
.TP
\fBcheckout\fR
the RCS check-out package
.TP
.SH ANTICIPATED CHANGES
.PP
\fBBaseline\fR does not currently handle branch deltas.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
checkin, checkout, ded, permit
.SH AUTHOR:
.PP
Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>
