.\" $Id: checkout.man,v 11.9 2025/09/28 23:02:39 tom Exp $
.TH CHECKOUT 1 2025-09-28 "" "User commands"
.ie n .ds CW R
.el   \{
.ie \n(.g .ds CW CR
.el       .ds CW CW
.\}
.de Es
.ne \\$1
.nr mE \\n(.f
.RS 5n
.sp .7
.nf
.nh
.ta 9n 17n 25n 33n 41n 49n
.ft \*(CW
..
.de Eh
.ft \\n(mE
.fi
.hy \\n(HY
.RE
.sp .7
..
.SH NAME
\fBcheckout\fR \-
RCS check-out utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcheckout\fI [options] [file-specifications]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBCheckout\fR is an extension of the RCS utility \fBco\fR.
It uses a file's check-in date to set the file's modification date
after check-out.
.PP
\fBCheckout\fR uses the rcs utility \fBco\fR.
It is normally invoked from the \fBrcsget\fR script,
but may be invoked in a standalone manner.
\fBCheckout\fR differs from \fBco\fR primarily
in its treatment to the delta date: after invoking \fBco\fR,
\fBcheckout\fR
sets the file's modification date to match the delta-date for
the extracted version.
.SS
Set-UID Operation
Like the \fBcheckin\fR utility, \fBcheckout\fR properly
handles set-uid operation for a non-root effective user.
The archived
files are owned by the effective user, and the checked-out files are
owned by the real user.
.PP
Note that since \fBcheckin\fR initializes the access list
in the archive files, the real user must appear on the access list
to lock a file.
Of course, if no lock is made, then the user need
not be on the access list.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBCheckout\fR recognizes all of the "\fBco\fR" options
except for the "\-\fBd\fR" cutoff date.
Instead, the "\-\fBc\fR"
option is used:
.TP 4n
.B \-c\fR \fIcutoff\fR
specifies the \fIrcs\fR cutoff
date, in SCCS-format
.RS
.Es
YY[MM[DD[HH[MM[SS]]]]]
.Eh
.PP
Punctuation in the date is permitted.
For example,
.Es 2
-c 77/2/2 9:22:25
-c 770202092225
.Eh
.PP
represent the same date.
This option is translated to the \fBco\fR
"\-\fBd\fR" option.
.RE
.PP
Use the "\-\fBx\fR" option of \fBcheckout\fR to direct it
to retain the pathname when translating between working and archive
files, e.g, "\fBpath/name\fR" becomes "\fBpath/RCS/name,v\fR".
If the "\-\fBx\fR" option is not set, "\fBpath/name\fR"
becomes "\fB./RCS/name,v\fR", and "\fBpath/RCS/name,v\fR"
becomes "\fB./name\fR".
.SH OPERATIONS
To extract files using \fBcheckout\fR, you must provide one or
more file names.
For each name, checkout parses the leaf-name and
extracts the specified version from the "./RCS" directory.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fBCheckout\fR is a C-language program.
It invokes \fBco\fR
via an \fIexeclp\fR call (so that \fBco\fR must be in your
path), and performs pre- and postprocessing of the archive and working
file to determine the delta-date to use for the extracted file.
Environment variables used by checkout include:
.TP
\fBRCS_DIR\fR
if defined, specifies the directory in which \fIrcs
\fR archive files are found.
Normally files are found in "./RCS".
.TP
\fBTZ\fR
is the POSIX time zone, which is overridden internally
so that file modification dates are independent of the local time
zone.
.SH FILES
Checkout uses the following files:
.TP
\fBco\fR
the RCS check-out program
.SH ANTICIPATED CHANGES
This does not handle \fIrcs\fR branches properly.
.PP
\fBCheckout\fR does not handle the "\-\fBj\fR" and "\-\fBp\fR"
options of \fBco\fR.
.SH AUTHORS
Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>
.SH SEE ALSO
checkin, rcsput, ded, ci\ (1), co\ (1)
