.\" $Id: link2rcs.man,v 11.7 2014/12/14 20:15:50 tom Exp $
.de Es
.ne \\$1
.nr mE \\n(.f
.RS 5n
.sp .7
.nf
.nh
.ta 9n 17n 25n 33n 41n 49n
.ft CW
..
.de Ex
.ft \\n(mE
.fi
.hy \\n(HY
.RE
.sp .7
..
.TH LINK2RCS 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBlink2rcs\fR \- rcs directory template
.SH USAGE
.PP
\fBlink2rcs\fP\fI [options] [file-specifications]\fP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBLink2rcs\fR makes (an empty) template of an existing directory
tree.  All directory names are copied; "RCS" directories are transformed
into symbolic links pointing to the original tree.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBLink2rcs\fR is used to make a working copy of a source-controlled
module which is configured in a tree of directories (e.g., bin, lib,
include, src, with dependent subdirectories).  By making a template
directory (i.e., with the same relative pathnames), you may check-out
files and continue to develop the module.  By making symbolic links
to the original set of \fIrcs\fR directories, \fBlink2rcs\fR
facilitates the use of \fIrcs\fR: \fBci\fR and \fBco\fR
assume that the \fIrcs\fR files are in a subdirectory named "RCS".
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBLink2rcs\fR recognizes the following options:
.TP 5
.B \-a
process all directory names.  Like the \fBls\fR
option "-\fBa\fR", this enables the processing of names beginning
with ".".
.TP
.BI \-b num
directs \fBlink2rcs\fR to avoid generating
directories which do not correspond to a source-directory with the
given \fIrcs\fR baseline.  Use "-\fBb\fR0" to suppress directories
which do not correspond to any \fIrcs\fR baseline.
.TP
.BI \-d path
specifies the destination directory.
You must always specify this if you don't specify the "-\fBs\fR"
option.
.TP
.BI \-e env
(Apollo only) specifies the name of an
environment variable which can be used to substitute for the beginning
of the link-text.
.TP
.B \-f
makes links to files as well as directories.
.TP
.B \-F
makes hard links to files as well as directories.
.TP
.B \-m
merge against destination, i.e., don't quit if a target
directory or link is found.
.TP
.B \-n
(no-op) causes \fBlink2rcs\fR to compute the modifications
and to display them (according to the setting of "-\fBq\fR"
and "-\fBv\fR"), but not to modify the target directory tree.
.TP
.B \-o
overwrite files and links in the destination, replacing them with
links, either symbolic or hard, depending on whether you have specified
the "-\fBf\fR" or "-\fBF\fR" option.
.TP
.B \-r
directs link2rcs to compute relative pathnames for
the symbolic links which it creates.  Normally the links are made
with an absolute pathname (e.g., "\fB/u1/foo/RCS\fR").
.TP
.B \-q
(quiet) undoes "-\fBv\fR", eliminates most
messages.
.TP
.BI \-s path
specifies the source directory.  Normally
you need not specify this; it defaults to ".".
.TP
.B \-v
(verbose) shows shell-command equivalents to the modifications
which are made.
.SH OPERATIONS
.PP
Normally, you use \fBlink2rcs\fR when constructing a development
directory based on an existing source tree.  To copy an entire tree,
change your shell's working directory to the source directory (i.e.,
using the "cd" command) and type
.Es
link2rcs -d \fIdst_dir\fR .
.Ex
.PP
where \fIdst_dir\fR is the name of the (existing) directory under
which you wish to create the template directory, and the "." specifies
the current working directory.  If you wish to copy only some of the
directories, type their names instead of ".".
.PP
\fBLink2rcs\fR makes a list of all directories under the
source directory and attempts to create a corresponding template under
the destination directory.  Each time it finds a directory named "RCS"
it makes a symbolic link; otherwise it makes directories to match
those in the source tree.
.PP
If any of the names which \fBlink2rcs\fR plans to create already
exists, it halts with an error message (unless "-\fBm\fR" is
specified).
.PP
When you have created the template tree, you may use \fBrcsget\fR
to check-out files into the destination tree.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fBLink2rcs\fR is written in C and runs in a POSIX environment.
.PP
It uses the \fBDED_CM_LOOKUP\fP variable (see ded(1)) to decide
whether to create a symbolic link or actual directory for CVS, RCS and SCCS.
By default, \fBlinkrcs\fP creates links for RCS and SCCS directories.
But if  \fBDEC_CM_LOOKUP\fP is set, \fBlink2rcs\fP creates links
only if those features are listed in the environment variable.
.SH FILES
.PP
\fBLink2rcs\fR consists of a single binary file, \fBlink2rcs\fR.
.SH ANTICIPATED CHANGES
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
ded, baseline, rcsget, checkout, permit, rcs(1)
.SH AUTHOR:
.PP
Thomas E. Dickey <dickey@invisible-island.net>
