.\" $Id: rcsget.man,v 11.0 1991/09/25 13:22:55 ste_cm Rel $
.TH RCSGET 1
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBrcsget\fR \- rcs check-out utility
.SH USAGE
.PP
\fBrcsget\fI [options] [file-specifications]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBRcsget\fR is a simple interface to \fIrcs\fR (\fBr\fRevision
\fBc\fRontrol \fBs\fRystem), which is used to extract files
from \fIrcs\fR archives.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBRcsget\fR checks out (extracts) files from an \fIrcs\fR
archive which have been checked in using \fBrcsput \fRor\fBcheckin\fR.
\fBRcsput\fR checks in files, retaining their modification
date as the check-in date. \fB Rcsget\fR extracts a given version
of one or more files, and sets their modification date to match the
check-in date.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBRcsget\fR is a directory-recursive interface to the \fBco\fR
utility which does special things with the file modification date.
Most of its options are passed to \fBco\fR, and then interpreted
to determine the correct modification date.
Options special to \fBrcsget\fR are:
.TP
.B \-a
permits \fBrcsget\fR to process directory names
beginning with ".".
.TP
.B \-d
directs \fBrcsget\fR to scan the \fIrcs\fR directories
to find the list of files which are checked-out.
Otherwise, \fBrcsget\fR
will select only those files which are already checked-out.
.TP
.B \-L
directs \fBrcsget\fR to follow symbolic links to subdirectories.
These are ignored otherwise.
.TP
.B \-n
no-op mode directs \fBrcsget\fR to show what files
would be checked out without actually checking them out.
.TP
.B \-R
(same as \-\fBd\fR)
causes \fBrcsget\fR to recur through the specified directories.
.TP
.BI \-T path
specify an alternate pathname for the \fBcheckout\fR utility.
This overrides the default "\fBcheckout\fR"
path.
.PP
\fBRcsget\fR also recognizes (and acts on) the "\-\fBq\fR" (quiet)
and "\-\fBx\fR" options of \fBcheckout\fR.
.SH OPERATIONS
.PP
To extract files using \fBrcsget\fR, you must provide one or more
names.
They may be either file or directory names.
.PP
\fBRcsget\fR resolves names until it finds one of the form "RCS/\fIfile\fR,v" before invoking \fBco\fR.
If it finds a directory (other
than "RCS"), \fBrcsget\fR will recur to extract files at lower
levels.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fBRcsget\fR is written in C, and runs on UNIX\*R systems.
.SH FILES
.PP
\fBRcsget\fR uses the following files:
.TP
\fBcheckout\fR
a utility which invokes \fBco\fR and then
modifies the file's modification date so that it matches the version-date
selected which was extracted via \fBco\fR.
.SH ANTICIPATED CHANGES
.PP
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
checkin, checkout, rcsput, ded, co\ (1)
.SH AUTHOR:
.PP
Thomas Dickey (Software Productivity Consortium).
